Drop out.
Does this seemingly crazy thing of
randomly knocking out units your network?
Why does it work?
So as a regular user,
let's give some better intuition.
In the previous video,
I gave this intuition that drop out
randomly knocks out units in your network.
So it's as if on every iteration you're
working with a smaller neural network.
And so using a smaller
neural network seems like it
should have a regularizing effect.
Here's the second intuition which is,
you know,
let's look at it from
the perspective of a single unit.
Right, let's say this one, now for this
unit to do his job has four inputs and
it needs to generate
some meaningful output.
Now with drop out,
the inputs can get randomly eliminated.
You know, sometimes those two
units will get eliminated.
Sometimes a different
unit will get eliminated.
So what this means is that this
unit which I'm circling purple.
It can't rely on anyone feature because
anyone feature could go away at random or
anyone of its own inputs
could go away at random.
So in particular,
I will be reluctant to put all of its
bets on say just this input, right.
The ways were reluctant to put too much
weight on anyone input because it could
go away.
So this unit will be more motivated
to spread out this ways and
give you a little bit of weight to
each of the four inputs to this unit.
And by spreading out the weights
this will tend to have an effect
of shrinking the squared
norm of the waist,
and so similar to what we
saw with L2 regularization.
The effect of implementing dropout
is that its strength the ways and
similar to L2 regularization, it helps to
prevent overfitting, but it turns out that
dropout can formally be shown to be
an adaptive form of L2 regularization,
but the L2 penalty on different ways
are different depending on the size of
the activation is being
multiplied into that way.
But to summarize it is possible to show
that dropout has a similar effect to.
L2 regularization.
Only the L2 regularization applied to
different ways can be a little bit
different and even more adaptive
to the scale of different inputs.
One more detail for
when you're implementing dropout,
here's a network where you
have three input features.
This is seven hidden units here.
7, 3, 2, 1, so
one of the practice we have to choose was
the keep prop which is a chance
of keeping a unit in each layer.
So it is also feasible to
vary keep-propped by layer.
So for the first layer,
your matrix W1 will be 7 by 3.
Your second weight matrix will be 7 by 7.
W3 will be 3 by 7 and so on.
And so W2 is actually the biggest
weight matrix, right?
Because they're actually
the largest set of parameters.
B and W2, which is 7 by 7.
So to prevent, to reduce overfitting
of that matrix, maybe for this layer,
I guess this is layer 2, you might
have a key prop that's relatively low,
say 0.5, whereas for different layers
where you might worry less about over 15,
you could have a higher key problem.
Maybe just 0.7, maybe this is 0.7.
And then for layers we don't
worry about overfitting at all.
You can have a key prop of 1.0.
Right?
So, you know, for clarity, these are
numbers I'm drawing in the purple boxes.
These could be different key props for
different layers.
Notice that the key problem 1.0 means
that you're keeping every unit.
And so you're really not using
drop out for that layer.
But for layers where you're more worried
about overfitting really the layers with
a lot of parameters you could say keep
prop to be smaller to apply a more
powerful form of dropout.
It's kind of like cranking
up the regularization.
Parameter lambda of L2 regularization
where you try to regularize some layers
more than others.
And technically you can also apply drop
out to the input layer where you can have
some chance of just acting out one or
more of the input features,
although in practice,
usually don't do that often.
And so key problem of 1.0 is
quite common for the input there.
You might also use a very high value,
maybe 0.9 but is much less likely that
you want to eliminate half of the input
features so usually keep prop.
If you apply that all will
be a number close to 1.
If you even apply dropout
at all to the input layer.
So just to summarize if you're more
worried about some layers of fitting than
others, you can set a lower key prop for
some layers than others.
The downside is this gives you even
more hyper parameters to search for
using cross validation.
One other alternative might be to have
some layers where you apply dropout and
some layers where you
don't apply drop out and
then just have one hyper parameter which
is a key prop for the layers for which you
do apply drop out and before we wrap
up just a couple implantation all tips.
Many of the first successful
implementations of dropouts were to
computer vision, so
in computer vision, the input sizes so
big in putting all these pixels that
you almost never have enough data.
And so drop out is very frequently used
by the computer vision and there are some
common vision research is that pretty
much always use it almost as a default.
But really, the thing to remember is that
drop out is a regularization technique,
it helps prevent overfitting.
And so unless my avram is overfitting, I
wouldn't actually bother to use drop out.
So as you somewhat less often
in other application areas,
there's just a computer vision,
you usually just don't have enough data so
you almost always overfitting,
which is why they tend to be some
computer vision researchers swear
by drop out by the intuition.
I was, doesn't always generalize,
I think to other disciplines.
One big downside of drop out
is that the cost function
J is no longer well defined
on every iteration.
You're randomly,
calling off a bunch of notes.
And so if you are double checking
the performance of great inter sent is
actually harder to double check that,
right?
You have a well defined cost function J.
That is going downhill on every
elevation because the cost function J.
That you're optimizing is actually less.
Less well defined or
it's certainly hard to calculate.
So you lose this debugging tool
to have a plot a draft like this.
So what I usually do is turn off drop out
or if you will set keep-propped = 1 and
run my code and make sure that it
is monitored quickly decreasing J.
And then turn on drop out and
hope that, I didn't introduce,
welcome to my code during drop out
because you need other ways, I guess, but
not plotting these figures to make
sure that your code is working,
the greatest is working
even with drop out.
So with that there's still a few more
regularization techniques that were
feel knowing.
Let's talk about a few more such
techniques in the next video.